It means that the staff knows that the competence model exists, it exists.
But when it comes to the manager and says,
determine what competencies are necessary for the future employee, the application to which you have submitted.
The manager answers, listen, determine something yourself.
Well, you know, you know our specifics so well.
You are not the first time you are looking for an employee for me.
Come up with something yourself.
The manager nods his head, perhaps he comes up with something himself,
a certain model of competence that he has, or maybe not, and does everything as usual.
Thus, it is important to understand that the development of a competence model is only the beginning.
The beginning before the future process of implementation, application and testing in our corporate practice.
It is important to understand the following, that having this tool,
the staff manager can no longer say that he does not participate and is not responsible for the management decisions
regarding the employees who are hired.
I will give you the following example.
Let's assume that the chief engineer of one of the enterprises is retiring and it is necessary to find a replacement.
What did the chief engineer think about?
Having worked in the company for many years, he said that there is one candidate, there is Vasya,
because Vasya has golden hands, he can do everything, and he is worthy of taking my place.
What can happen after that?
Vasya can be appointed to a position.
Will he be successful? Will he not be successful? It is not clear.
What other way of development can there be in this situation, if there is a competence model in the company?
The staff manager can offer several more candidates to his position together with the chief engineer.
It can be Vasya, Petya and Fedya.
The next step will be to evaluate the candidates' profile data.
What is the competence profile?
Not the current position, in which they work, for example, as mechanics or someone else,
but the profile of the position of the chief engineer.
What is the profile of the position of the chief engineer?
In addition to professional competencies, it is a block of management competencies.
Vasya has golden hands, and from the point of view of professional competencies, he is the best in the company.
But this does not mean that his competence profile, from the point of view of the profile of the position of the chief engineer, will be better.
And maybe Petya, who is number two, or number three,
and whose hands are not golden, and he cannot fix something like Vasya,
from the point of view of management competencies, he will be the best, because he knows how to deal with people,
he knows how to set tasks, he understands a certain system of work in the service of the chief engineer,
and he understands how to improve it, optimize it, and so on.
Therefore, the best candidate of the three will be Petya.
If we assign Vasya, then, perhaps, after some time, Vasya, having not worked with other managers,
and he will already become the chief engineer, and he will be surrounded by line managers,
with whom he used to work only as a subordinate.
If he is not successful, what can be his fate?
Most likely, he will leave the company.
Yes, he is unlikely to return to his previous place.
Thus, we will lose a good mechanic and will not acquire a chief engineer.
This is the case when a staff manager can participate in decision-making
and be responsible for their wrong decision.
If the situation goes down the wrong path, then the care of a good specialist
can be blamed on the staff.
Therefore, it is necessary to understand that using, having, using and using this tool,
we become responsible and participate in making all decisions that take place in the company.
If we recall the staff management system, then the competence model,
if it is developed uniformly for the entire company,
what we called a core model some time ago,
which is used in all practices and procedures of staff management,
it is applied in almost every direction.
Once again, we select employees, we assess their behavior using competence,
we develop, we work with corporate culture when we formulate corporate competencies.
Thus, in almost every direction, we use the competencies that we have created.
I want to tell you about an interesting and necessary method in our activities.
This is a method of paired comparison of competencies.
When do we need it?
Look, we have developed 12 competencies,
and we need to assess the employees of some department.
There can be 30 employees.
Maybe more, maybe less, of course, but maybe more.
To assess 30 employees of 12 competencies,
it is necessary to spend a lot of time.
Therefore, the question always arises,
what competencies are the most important?
Maybe we should focus on them?
The same thing with selection.
The same 12 competencies.
A large number of candidates must be interviewed.
And we always want to ask ourselves,
what competencies are critical?
What exactly can we refuse?
What are we ready to learn within the company?
What are we not ready to answer?
What competencies do we buy from the market,
inviting this specialist?
Thus, the question of arranging competencies arises.
And the method of paired comparison is very well applied.
It is important to remember the following.
We assess competencies for each other
for a certain position,
which is necessary for the future period of time.
We always appeal to the future,
not to what is today,
but to what will be needed tomorrow.
What is this method?
Its essence is that each competency
is consistently compared with another.
Competencies are compared with each other
by asking the question,
what is more important for an employee
to be successful in this position?
Which one? Competency 1 or Competency 2?
If our answer is that it is more important to have Competency 1,
then this competency is awarded 2 points.
If we find it difficult to choose,
because both competencies are important,
then both competencies get 1 point each.
If Competency 2 is more important,
and Competency 1, which we assess, is less important,
then Competency 1 gets 0 points.
Let's look at this with you as an example.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide with an example.
This slide consistently compares
5 competencies with each other.
Strategic thinking,
team building, adaptation to changes,
process management,
and result-oriented.
How do we do it?
Let's follow it and see together.
First of all, a certain position is defined.
Let it be the position of the head of the staff,
to illustrate our example.
First of all, Competency 1 is compared to Competency 2.
Strategic thinking is compared to team building.
What is the priority for this position?
It is clear that each of you can answer in different ways.
One will say that strategy is everything.
The other will say that team is everything.
We say that this is an example,
and the goal of this example is to show how points are distributed in the table.
Therefore, in our example, these competencies are equally important.
Thus, Competency 1 is a strategic thinking.
If we assess it,
then we go from left to right.
This competency gets 1 point.
We see that in the cell we write 1.
After that, we compare strategic thinking to the competency adaptation to changes.
What do we see?
These competencies are equally important.
Therefore, Competency 1 is 1 point.
After that, we compare strategic thinking to the competency of process management.
We see that Competency 1 is more important than process management for the head of the staff.
Thus, Strategic Thinking gets 2 points.
After that, we compare Competency 2 with the last competency,
which is the result-oriented.
We see that the result-oriented is more important.
Therefore, Strategic Thinking gets 0 points.
Thus, in our analysis, Strategic Thinking got 4 points.
After that, we go down to the line and start analyzing the creation of the team.
We compare the team with the strategic thinking.
We see it and write 1 there.
After that, we compare the team with the adaptation to changes.
We see that the team-creation competency is more important.
Therefore, it gets 2 points, and the adaptation to changes gets 0.
Also, the team-creation is more important than process management,
but less important than the result-oriented.
Accordingly, we assign 2 and 0 points.
Thus, the team-creation competency in total gets 5 points.
We go down to the line and start analyzing the adaptation to changes.
We have already compared it with the strategic thinking,
the team-creation, and now we have to compare it with only 2 competencies.
Process management and the result-oriented.
We say that in comparison with both competencies,
the adaptation to changes competencies are equally important.
Therefore, they get 1 point each.
The total point that the adaptation to changes gets is 3 points.
Let's move on to the process management.
We have to compare the process management only with the result-oriented,
because we have already compared it with all other competencies.
It was not important in comparison with the strategic thinking and the team-creation.
It got 1 point when it was about the adaptation to changes.
Accordingly, comparing it with the result-oriented,
the process management gets 2 points, because it is the most important.
In total, the process management gets 3 points.
Once again, this is an example.
In a company, for a certain position,
the result-oriented will be more important than the process management.
This is an example to illustrate this method.
When we get to the result-oriented,
we have already compared this competency with all other competencies.
We remember that it was more important than the strategic thinking,
than the team-creation.
It was about the adaptation to changes and gave way to the process management.
In total, this competency got 5 points.
Thus, we have two competencies that are the priority in this list.
What are these competencies?
These are the competencies that got 5 points.
They are the team-creation and the result-oriented.
Thus, out of the five competencies that we have,
we have determined two of the most important.
Maybe we needed three of the most important.
Then, this competency will be the strategic thinking,
which got 4 points.
Please note that we use this method
to determine the priority competencies for a specific position.
For example, these are two priority competencies
for the position of the head of the staff.
For the position of the logistics manager,
the priority competencies may be completely different.
Using this method, we make our activities a little easier.
If we need to find a specialist for this position,
we will understand that these competencies are the priority competencies.
It is important for us that a person is a team player,
that he can create a team, and we will teach him the rest.
If he is not a team player,
then, unfortunately, the level of development will not be high,
and he will not join our company.
We will not make him an offer.
We start talking about the application of competencies in our companies.
We start talking about the evaluation of the staff,
about the use of competencies when conducting evaluation procedures.
What are the goals of evaluation activities?
The first goal is to evaluate the current level of competence development,
the required level, and its compliance.
The second goal is to select people for the future staff reserve
and create individual development plans for them.
The next goal is to create a training program for employees
based on the results of evaluation activities.
The next goal is to correct compensation packages
for employees who have successfully completed evaluation activities.
As we have already discussed at the very beginning,
there is no single terminology in our professional community.
Therefore, in literature,
you can often find terms that are equated as synonyms.
Evaluation of activity, evaluation of competencies, etc.
In fact, at least for yourself,
it is necessary to understand that evaluation procedures are divided.
Either we evaluate the activity,
which in English sounds like performance appraisal,
we evaluate the effectiveness of our employees.
And the second is when we evaluate their behavior.
That is, evaluation of competencies.
Or we conduct an assessment center,
as we have already discussed,
taking this word for Russian,
and taking it into our professional language.
In our companies, these things can go hand in hand.
We evaluated a little how the employee achieved his results
and the goals that were set by his manager in the past.
And we evaluate competencies for a long time.
Again, it all depends on our tasks.
But it is important to remember that evaluation of activity is what?
And it answers the question, what did the employee do?
Evaluation of competencies answers the question,
how were these results achieved?
When we combine these two assessments,
we get very important information.
Let's imagine a situation when the head of the department comes,
let's say sales, since we often mention this department today,
and says that something is not sold well,
the plan is always fulfilled 80-85%.
It seems to be being fulfilled, and not the worst indicator,
but something is not reaching.
Conduct a training, and he provides a request to the staff manager.
The staff manager, having taken this request,
starts to call training companies,
and training companies come and conduct training for employees of the sales department.
Probably, what is important, they adapt it to a specific specificity.
Is it a real option?
Of course, it is real.
It often happens.
Often.
But if we use the assessment of competencies,
what can we see?
We can see that the department in general fulfills the plan 80-85%, as we said.
But each of the department employees lacks something of their own.
One person knows the product poorly, he is constantly confused.
Another person knows the product well, but when the client says it is expensive,
he falls into a stupor and cannot answer anything,
thinking about himself that it is really expensive.
That is, he does not know how to work with objections.
Another person, having carried out a single sale,
cannot establish a relationship with the client.
He starts looking for new ones,
and thus the post-sale service is not performed well and efficiently.
Thus, if we assess the competencies of the employees of this department,
we will see a different level of development of different competencies.
And by and large, we will offer this manager not a single program for everyone,
but we will show that each employee lacks something of their own.
And by and large, each employee should be sent to either his own training,
or specific things should be paid attention to in his work.
This is the situation when we will talk about individual development plans.
Therefore, once again, we will talk about the assessment of competencies today.
That is, exactly how.
This assessment of competencies should always be carried out in a system of assessment of staff,
where the assessment of activity is an important element.
That is, what was achieved.
So, when conducting assessment events, we must meet several conditions.
First of all, we need to determine the goal for which we are conducting the assessment.
What results we want to get and how we will use these results.
We must always remember that assessment events are not conducted for themselves,
but for some subsequent actions for the purpose of making some management decision.
Next, it is important that the selected assessment procedures meet the goals.
We will talk about the procedures a little later, including methods.
Next, it is important that there are competent people, competent assessors.
This can be both internal specialists and external specialists.
In any case, those who will assess our employees should have competencies in this area.
It often happens that employees of the staff do everything, and select, and train, and assess.
Probably, there are such specialists, but still there are not so many of them.
Therefore, it is important to ensure that our task is that the professionals are engaged in assessment.
Next, it is important to conduct preliminary explanatory work with employees.
Explain to them the goals of the assessment, explain their benefits, what they can get.
I do not recommend you to do an assessment that can involve some,
especially the first time, unpopular management decisions.
Do not give, do not fire, and so on.
Although it is not so simple, nevertheless, when employees know that they will not get something,
it is better to always go the other way around.
What can an employee get, what are his benefits, so that he participates and does not resist these procedures.
Next, it is a qualitative preparation of content, that is, their cases, exercises, role-playing games, and so on.
We will talk about them a little now.
So, what are the methods of assessment?
There are many methods, different methods, many of them you know.
The first is the filling of assessment sheets or conducting a survey with a 360-degree method.
What is 360 degrees?
This is a situation when an employee is assessed by the manager, his colleague, his subordinate,
if he has one, and the employee assesses himself.
That is, a kind of circular assessment.
In this case, if we have competencies, then the employee is assessed according to the competencies.
When we are in the assessment sheets, we provide all the indicators that we have developed,
and we ask to choose our evaluators, managers, whether it is a colleague or a subordinate,
what kind of employee you assess, what behavior he shows in his work.
And those who assess, they indicate.
The value of this assessment is that it is most often objective.
Of course, it happens when a subordinate wants to flatter the manager,
or the manager, having a certain tooth on the subordinate, can somehow lower the rating.
In any case, when it comes to assessment, let's say, from four sides,
the assessment will be balanced in some way, and we will receive information for analysis.
The next is an interview.
What kind of interview?
An interview, again, on competencies.
When the interviewer sits down with the employee and begins to ask him questions
about the situations that were in his professional life,
which took place, with questions about how this person behaved at one time or another,
what was the result of this behavior.
The goal of this interview is to gather the standards of behavior,
how a person behaves most often.
If we assess the managerial competencies of an employee,
and in his story there are few examples of how he showed these management competencies,
we can draw two conclusions.
The first is that the employee is not developed for some reason.
But there may be another conclusion,
that the employee does not have the opportunity to apply these competencies in our organization.
We taught him, taught him, taught him.
He can, but we did not give him resources.
He has no one to manage.
Thus, we will take this into account,
and in subsequent exercises, using other methods of assessment,
we will see how in a certain game, when solving certain tasks,
how the employee will show himself and his competencies in this situation.
The next method is testing.
Either we test to assess professional knowledge,
and then it is from the field of professional competencies,
as a first step.
Our goal is to understand whether employees do this,
but first we assess whether he knows what to do and how to do it.
Or these are psychological tests,
which are often used by specialists who know how to do it.
which are also used as tools in our work.
The next method is solving tasks or cases.
Most often these are individual exercises,
these are individual tasks, either written tasks or oral tasks,
when it is necessary to analyze a situation,
to offer your vision, to offer your decision.
Based on this, we, acting as assessors,
can draw conclusions about the preparation,
about the professional preparation of the employee,
if it was a task on a professional topic,
and about what competencies he has in the field of information analysis,
and in the field of information presentation,
if, for example, at the end of this task,
he has to make a presentation to the assessment commission.
The next method is games.
Games can be business or role-playing.
What is the essence of a role-playing game?
A role-playing game is, most often, a game
in which we analyze a certain invented situation,
which we set for ourselves.
We analyze the working, professional behavior of an employee.
If he works with clients,
then, accordingly, the role-playing game will be his,
as a manager, let's say, for sales and a client.
If we have a task to assess the communication competencies of the manager,
then we create a role-playing game
in which the manager communicates with the manager,
and they must protect their interests,
achieve their goals,
and at the same time jointly achieve a compromise.
A very important point is that
if we are preparing a role-playing game,
then we must prescribe both roles.
It is clear that these roles will contradict each other in their interests.
There will always be their minimum and maximum.
Nevertheless, these things need to be coordinated
so that neither one of the heroes,
who we assess,
nor the one who plays and helps him in this exercise,
has less opportunities for improvisation.
The game did not go in any way.
It is important that if we assess the communication and professional competencies,
how a person will act in a specific situation,
with the given resources to achieve the goals that are determined.
These are role-playing games.
When it comes to business games,
most often we mean games in which a group of people participates,
a group of assessors.
They have one common task,
which they must solve,
the goal which they must achieve.
The so-called simulation games are very popular now.
That is, a business situation, a business task,
in which a group of participants represents one company,
which is often fictional,
and which must achieve the goals with the resources they have.
This method is gaining more and more popularity
and is being used very actively to assess the leaders of the middle and upper ranks.
Because during such games,
the leaders are very open,
and we can observe their behavior.
The next method is group exercises or discussions.
When it is necessary to discuss a task,
or discuss a situation,
come to a single decision,
or when a controversy is organized on a controversial topic,
it is necessary to understand how the participants participate in such group discussions
and solve group exercises.
It is very important that during assessment procedures
it is important to assess the behavior that is really observable,
and not to think why the employee behaves in a proper way,
that is, not to analyze hypotheses about his reasons.
Thus, in a group of experts,
when an assessment commission is formed,
both internal specialists and specialists from the outside are often attracted.
On the one hand, the internal specialist knows a lot,
he knows the corporate spirit, he knows the environment, he knows corporate slang,
and he will be an assistant in the event of a situation
when the same behavior can be interpreted in different ways.
For example, we will call one person an economist,
if he is our friend,
and if he is not our friend,
how can we call him?
We can call him a miser.
The characteristics are different,
but the observed behavior can be similar.
It is the internal experts who will help us identify the observed behavior in a proper way,
and the external experts will help us, let's say,
to be free from the story that we know about the participants.
When you look and understand that in life he behaves differently,
probably he is tired, or has not slept,
or has not yet understood where he is,
but he is actually different.
An external expert will never allow us to do this,
he will always rely on the behavior he observes,
and will pay our attention to this.
Very often in literature we meet and talk about such a method as a center of assessment.
What is a center of assessment?
First of all, this term is a translation of the English term assessment center,
which we also use in our professional terminology.
It is important to understand that the classical assessment center,
which was introduced in Russia about 10 years ago by leading Western consulting companies,
includes a certain set of exercises.
This is a kind of a set of methods,
thanks to which we assess the behavior and the level of competence development that employees have.
Now, in corporate practice, we understand different things under the assessment center.
We combine two different methods and call it an assessment.
Nevertheless, there are some standards of the assessment center,
which should be taken into account even when we adapt it to our corporate tasks.
Most often, the assessment lasts 1-2 days.
The assessment is carried out based on the model of competence that exists.
Assessment is practically impossible to conduct without formulated competencies.
Next, competencies must be interconnected with the success of the work.
These are not just some competencies taken from somewhere,
these are the competencies that ensure the successful performance of the work.
How many participants can be?
There should be no more than 7 participants,
otherwise it will be difficult to observe them.
Or it can be 2 times 7, if we are talking about two groups and a large number of participants that we need to assess.
It is important to remember that there is such a concept as an individual assessment center,
in which one employee participates.
When can this be?
Most often, we use it when selecting staff.
When our company invites a top manager to work,
and we know a lot about his professional competencies,
because he is known on his market,
and we attract him with the help of the agency,
we should not make a mistake,
because the cost of the mistake will be quite high.
And we can offer, if we have a need for this,
to order an individual assessment center for this top manager,
during which we will assess his management and corporate competencies,
how much their level corresponds to our company.
For example, he can tell us during the interview that he is a team player,
that the interests of the team are the most important for him.
And this can correspond to what we have, and we want to hear it.
If the center is well organized, it is likely that it will not be conducted.
And we can see that this is not the person who,
having reached the gates, using football terminology,
will give the last pass and score a goal for his teammate.
He will still strive to do it himself.
And so we will see that a person declares that he is interested in work,
he declares his team spirit.
Maybe he even wants to be like that.
Nevertheless, in his work, he is an individualist and tries to do everything himself.
This is a good quality, but in our example, not for our position.
This is about the number of participants.
Next, the observers, that is, the assessors,
if we use American terminology.
There should be several observers, not one or two.
It is clear that their number directly depends on the number of participants.
If this is an individual assessment, then there will be enough two observers.
If these are groups, then most often there are three, four, five,
among which, I repeat, there are both involved specialists from outside,
and our internal employees.
What do the observers do?
The observers analyze the behavior that the participants of the assessment center
show during the exercises.
And everyone observes no more than two participants.
Because it's not that easy to observe, interpret, analyze the behavior you see.
Sometimes in different exercises, observers change participants.
It's not that the observer takes two participants and looks at them for two days.
No, in this exercise, he looks at these two, in the next exercise, he looks at others.
It is important to understand that, as we have already said,
the success of assessment procedures depends on the fulfillment of the exercises that our employees solve.
Therefore, more than 90% of the exercises should imitate professional activity.
And a maximum of 5-10% can be psychological exercises.
Because, again, our task is to assess the work behavior.
And we can assess the work behavior by creating the most characteristic conditions,
that is, the environment in which employees work every day.
The execution of each exercise, of course, is limited in time.
And in each exercise there are no more than four competencies.
Even if we try to analyze eight competencies,
which we have determined and included in our corporate model,
in any case, one exercise demonstrates no more than four.
And, no less important, each competence must be checked in several exercises, in two or three.
We can see, for example, how the employee behaves during the group work,
analyze, look, then recheck our suspicions, our thoughts about how he behaved in another exercise,
and in this one he behaves the same.
And if his behavior is repeated, then we can say that, yes,
competencies are demonstrated at this level.
If the behavior changes for some reason,
maybe he was first constrained, squeezed, and then realized that there was nothing wrong,
and opened up completely,
then we just suggest and observe his behavior in various exercises more closely.
An important recommendation is that each participant must be provided with feedback.
Feedback can be different.
It can be a well-prepared and structured plan of individual development,
or just a few words about what a person should pay attention to.
But in any case, feedback should be there,
and the more it is, the better it is for our project.
Let's talk about what exercises we use when holding the assessment center.
First of all, it can be group exercises or individual exercises.
If we talk about group exercises,
then it can be two types of exercises that we use most often.
These are exercises with distributed roles and with non-distributed roles.
What's the difference?
The difference is that if in the case of a group exercise with non-distributed roles,
the task is received by a group,
and the task of the observer is to analyze how each of the participants behaves
in a situation that is not specifically set for him, but for the group.
And then the participants are analyzed.
Who will organize the group and say,
do as I do, write on the flip chart, go there, take this, and so on.
Who will be the most silent, but at the end will say three phrases
that will change the course of the group's work,
and the group will make a decision and see this person.
In this case, if the roles are distributed,
then this is a situation when the roles that are offered to the participants are a little contradictory.
And everyone has their own goal,
it can be a common group, it can be within the group,
when the participants need to agree with each other,
have the resources that are set, and have some restrictions that also exist.
Individual exercises can also be different.
It can be either a presentation,
when the participant needs to familiarize himself with the package of information provided,
he needs to analyze this information and make a decision,
presenting it to the evaluation commission.
It can be a role-playing game,
which refers to individual exercises, which we have already talked about.
It can be an exercise to find facts,
when the participant is given a brief description of a problem,
a situation that needs to be solved,
and he has the opportunity to ask a number of questions to the members of the evaluation commission,
asking for the necessary information that he needs to solve this exercise.
It can be an individual business exercise,
which is called an intray,
or you can look up the name in the Internet and in the literature,
as in a basket or in a folder.
The point is that the participant receives a certain package of information,
it can be of completely different types,
and his task is to solve the task that is set for him.
For example, it can be our reservist,
whom we are preparing for the role of the future leader.
Thus, he receives some information,
some correspondence, some documentation of his internal leader.
If the leader is not present and he is on a business trip,
he needs to analyze all the information and solve it.
It can be within the framework of one unit,
when there is a task to answer,
the client asks for a discount or he has stopped the supply of products.
It is necessary to identify whether the decision was made correctly or incorrectly,
and in the absence of imitation,
it is necessary to read the documents that confirm and illustrate
the history of cooperation with this client,
and assess whether it was a right decision or not,
and take responsibility for his acceptance.
The question is,
all this is great, the exercises are different,
where to get them from?
If the task is to hold an assessment center for reservists
and select candidates for the personnel reserve,
where to get the exercises?
There are several options.
If you invite professionals, professional consultants,
representatives of consulting or training companies,
your partners will come with a package of exercises,
which they will either use,
or when certain agreements are reached,
they will leave them for your future work.
Very often consultants develop exercises with you,
helping you do this,
already adapting the existing exercises to your corporate practice.
If you want to do it yourself,
you will never find the exercises that you need.
Develop them.
The question is who develops them?
Again, together with the managers and leading experts.
Because all the most difficult situations that could happen,
many of them have already happened.
And there is always a story.
Do you remember how difficult it was,
what conflict arose, how we solved it?
And there are always such stories,
practically legends in all departments.
Therefore, the task of the staff is to describe them
and create some exercises from them.
Be it an exercise to find facts,
or describe some role-playing game,
or to come up with a situation for analysis,
in order to understand how the future participant of the assessment center
will act in a given situation.
It is clear that if you send a letter to the manager,
saying that you need to describe how it all happened,
because you need it for your future exercise,
probably not everyone will answer,
because it is not always easy to formulate and write.
Therefore, it is advisable to work together.
It can be a specialist of the staff,
it can be a specialist engaged in training,
who simply comes with certain guiding questions to the manager
and just collects these examples.
And after a while you will have your own library of exercises,
which you will periodically update,
periodically you will add the most interesting exercises,
exclude something and modify them.
Then you can say that a certain library has been developed,
a certain portfolio of tasks that you use
to assess your competencies in completely different exercises.
As a result of such activity in the development of exercises,
you should get a certain matrix of assessment.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide that you see now.
When the entire list of competencies that you have is presented,
8, 10, 12, and the exercises that are available will be determined,
you will always be able to understand which competence,
which methods you have the opportunity to assess.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide,
where, as an example, the competence of working with clients is given,
and the methods of assessment that the company has in stock are listed.
This is from the filling of the assessment sheet,
the method is 360 degrees,
and as we see that instead of the subordinate, the client participates here,
assesses the employee.
This can be a written assessment of the knowledge of the assortment and the work technique,
work with clients, that is, an assessment of knowledge.
This is a business game that is developed based on the situation that took place.
And also this is a case that is offered to the participants to decide.
Again, someone else for this competence can offer some other methods.
Maybe there will be only two of them, maybe three, they will be completely different.
In this case, in this example, we see a choice of a specific company.
When the staff understands that in order to assess the competence of working with our employees,
these methods are available.
So, we have assessed our employees.
We have laid out the required level of development or profile of the position on our axes,
on which we have laid out the competence, drew webs,
and then applied the current level of development of our employees' competences.
We receive information for analysis, and we need to use this information.
How can we use it?
We can either make an individual plan and programs for each employee.
We determine which employees we will represent in the personnel reserve.
Speaking of the personnel reserve, it is important to understand that if we define this group for ourselves,
the group can be very large, or the positions can be different.
This does not mean that we have presented the whole group in the reserve for all positions.
Absolutely not.
We remember that in order to be listed in the personnel reserve and for subsequent development,
it is necessary to assess, or to impose the assessment that we have made,
but already to impose on the competence profile the position under which we select the reserve.
This does not mean that everything is again, everything is from the beginning.
If we represent an employee in the reserve, in the higher position,
then these are positions within the same group of positions.
Therefore, there will be the same corporate competences, the same professional competences.
The only thing that can be added is management competences,
if the employee did not engage in management activities in the previous position.
Thus, we can or plan to list the people we are listing in the personnel reserve.
We propose to give them another exercise,
within which we will observe the level of development of their management competences for subsequent assessment.
The next is the planning of the employee's career.
This is an opportunity that we have, and we can understand and give the employee feedback
so that he understands what he can expect while working in our company.
The next is the adjustment of compensation packages.
I say this because the word adjustment is very soft,
it is by no means a change in compensation packages.
What does it mean?
I do not recommend you to change the labor payment system,
to increase the salary based on the results of the assessment on competences,
because we pay for the result, and competences are still behavior.
We should not pay for the behavior demonstrated, no matter how it sounds.
It is clear that if the assessment on competences coincides with the assessment on activity,
then it can be the next step.
In any case, be careful, remember that only for the results of the assessment center,
compensation packages should not be changed easily.
There should be another reason for this.
Let's talk about the use of competences in the development of the staff.
We did a lot of work, we evaluated, and we understand that there is a group of employees
with a number of competences that we need to improve.
We all together, it is clear that they need to be improved,
but we, if we are a staff service, need to create an environment
and provide the tools that will help employees do this.
First of all, we develop special training programs,
whether individual or group, for the development of competences.
We can do this within our training centers, or within the company,
or we can attract external partners to achieve these goals.
There are many methods of training, they are different.
They are different in quality, they are different in duration, they are different in cost.
Again, from these methods, we choose those that are acceptable
for the development of specific competences of specific employees in our companies.
Thus, we will get the so-called development action menu,
or individual development plans.
When for the development of a certain competence, we have certain methods.
Remember, we had an assessment matrix there.
How can we assess competences?
The same thing here, the matrix of development actions.
How can we develop this competence?
What methods do we have?
The methods can be completely different.
It can be self-learning, it can be mentorship,
as one of the most effective methods.
It can be participation in development projects,
training and seminar.
It can be participation or even holding some master classes,
most likely inside the company.
It's not that we send an employee to train someone.
But we say that if he has some professional knowledge,
and on the other hand, he needs to develop competences related to communication,
work, let's say, a speech in front of an audience, and so on,
why not share his knowledge in this format?
It can be a development center.
We talked about assessment centers.
But there is also such a concept as a development center.
The point is that the algorithm of conduct is similar,
as we said about the assessment center,
but the goal is different.
The goal is not to assess, but to train during its implementation.
When an employee performs an exercise,
he immediately receives feedback.
And then, within the framework of the development center,
he receives another exercise and an opportunity to demonstrate and improve his skills.
The goal is not just to collect some information,
but to let the employee try to change his behavior
taking into account the feedback he received from the observers.
It is important to remember that employees with high grades,
that is, with a high level of competence, regardless of their position,
can and should perform as functional coaches and mentors.
Moreover, this is a great advantage for the company
when the most valuable knowledge can be passed from one employee to another.
This is also a plus for the employee, a kind of advantage,
because it is related to his inner motivation,
including the fact that he becomes an internal or functional coach.
Not to mention that if the company has a mentor motivation system,
it will always be an additional benefit.
Speaking of competence development,
we cannot help but talk about the competencies that are difficult to develop.
Some people call them undeveloped competencies,
but this name probably has a certain predisposition,
because if we call it competence,
we must accept that what has grown has grown.
What level of competence does the employee have?
We should always work with this.
Of course, there is a part of irony in this,
because undeveloped competencies are those competencies
within which it is quite difficult to change a person.
Nevertheless, we must understand whether such competencies exist in our model.
Loyalty.
How can we evaluate it?
How will we develop it?
How will we tell a person to be loyal if we want him to behave like this?
It's not that simple.
Such competencies can be different.
For example, the competence of creativity.
Competencies are not often found.
It can be either in some small creative organizations,
or it can be a professional competence of some group of employees.
Nevertheless, at the stage of formulating competence,
remembering and answering the question
how we can analyze and whether we can develop this competence in the future,
it is worth thinking about it in some way.
And, accordingly, later just understand that this is one of such competencies.
Therefore, what tools do we have?
The first is to analyze and select people at the entrance to the company for these competencies.
That is, not to miss people who do not have the level that we need
if this competence is a priority.
Also, develop a system of stimulation.
If we use not only development tools,
but tools from another field,
that is, the behavior that we think is necessary.
And also, again, try to determine the methods that may be.
Among which there may be coaching,
among which there must be feedback.
If a person is interested in developing this competence,
if he has an inner desire,
then this method will be very effective,
because he will receive feedback
either from a colleague, from a manager,
or from some internal expert.
And he will change and consciously change his activity in the direction that is necessary.
A few words about the personnel reserve, which we have already talked about today.
First of all, it is necessary to determine for ourselves what we understand as a personnel reserve.
Historically, we understand the personnel reserve as a reserve for a position,
for any of the positions.
It can be either a management reserve,
that is, when specialists are formed,
reservists are formed for the position of a manager,
or from the manager of the lower link
a reserve is formed for the position of a higher level manager.
Nevertheless, there is a concept that has become part of our language today,
which we read a lot in literature.
This is the management of talents.
When we form the so-called talent pool,
what is it about?
Is there any difference?
Most often, those companies that adhere to this principle
and say that we are not just forming a reserve for some position.
No, we select talented specialists from different fields.
We evaluate them, determining talent for ourselves in some way,
and most often as a potential for development.
We already understand that this is a certain set of competencies.
We determine these people for ourselves
in order to pay more attention to them during our work with the personnel
and understand that this is our future
and that it is more convenient for us to invest in this particular category of employees.
In this case, the talent pool is not for a specific position.
There is no profile of the competence of the chief engineer,
the reserve for which we are forming.
There is a certain scope for the future,
or a certain profile of success, as some companies call it.
Thus, it is necessary to determine the direction in which we work.
Either we have a reserve for a position,
or for a managerial position,
or for a position of a specialist, a rare specialist,
who is almost not on the market.
Let's say a technologist in our tricky production.
And we grow all technologists on our own.
Or, once again, a talent pool.
In any case, we understand that we select candidates
for the pool and the reserve based on the results of evaluation events.
We create individual development plans.
Only if we understand what to include in the development plan,
because there is a profile of the position,
in the reserve for which they are included,
and we understand, comparing with their current profile of the position,
what competencies need to be developed.
As for the talent pool,
we are talking about a certain profile of success.
When we set a certain level,
maybe we draw the profile of a young manager,
or we define it for ourselves in some other way.
And we start from this profile,
which we have defined for ourselves.
For reservists, individual plans are made.
It is very important that people,
who are listed in the reserve or in the talent pool,
are not just listed once,
but then, in a year, two or three,
to see what happened to them.
These are people, for whom we invest more money
from the calculation for one employee than for other employees.
Therefore, we need to constantly monitor the effectiveness of our investments.
What does it mean?
This is the level of reserve preparation.
We gave recommendations to employees about what to do.
Did any change happen or not?
This is something that must be monitored.
There are two aspects.
The first is that our reserve group is very slow and fast.
If our reserve is medium-term,
for example, for three years,
and we prepared it for a year,
but in a year we do not need ready specialists in this area,
what can happen?
Everything can turn out great,
the employee will say thank you,
straighten his wings and continue his career in another organization.
Therefore, you must feel this balance,
initially programming the reserve period for which we are preparing.
The benefits that the organization gets
when forming and developing a personnel reserve cannot be overestimated.
First of all, we must understand
that this is a systematic and targeted development
of a certain group of employees.
The money is invested in the best.
We do everything to maximize the return on these investments.
The reservists themselves understand
what the company expects from them
if they have individual plans or plans for future careers.
Thus, the best of them aim to develop
in accordance with these expectations.
Further, the corporate culture of the company
is gradually changing.
It becomes oriented towards personal development,
initiative, creativity.
In the hands of the line managers and the staff,
a real tool for working with employees
and increasing their loyalty and involvement in business appears.
There is also a very important
transition of the personnel service
to a different quality level of development.
Thus, both the organization
and the personnel service
as a guide and an agent of such changes win.
Let's pay attention to the next slide
where the cycle of corporate training
or training system is presented.
We will touch on this issue again
in our today's topic
– the competence model.
Very often, we have to develop
the training system.
The first step is to analyze
the needs of the employees.
There are many methods of analysis of needs.
One of them is the assessment of competence.
As a result, you often see
HR and personnel specialists
making a conspiracy to assess competence.
We also have to develop the competence model.
Then they either start the big way
we are talking about today
or they use some other methods.
In fact, the most valid and objective
is the assessment of competence.
If we have this competence,
we can easily make this step.
All the needs of the training
become clear and obvious
and we can work with them.
The next element of the system
is the planning of the training.
We need to understand who, how and when we will be teaching.
The next step is to develop the program
and how we will develop the competence.
The next step is to develop the training.
The next step is to assess the effectiveness.
The assessment of the effectiveness
is the final element of the system.
Let's recall the methods
for assessing the effectiveness of the training.
When we talk about the assessment of the effectiveness
we often mention the name
of Donald Kirkpatrick
who 30 years ago proposed
the technology of assessing the effectiveness of the training.
Now we know it as the Kirkpatrick model
or the 4-level model.
What is its essence?
Let's recall.
When we talk about the assessment of the effectiveness
of the training or some training program
we should ask ourselves what we assess.
Do we assess the training
which lasted for 16 hours?
Or do we assess the coach
or the participants?
We always ask this question.
Our task is not to assess the program
but to assess the changes
that the training has brought.
The changes in the work of the participants
should have led to the goal
for which the training program was conceived.
Kirkpatrick proposed to do the following.
First, he said
to assess the reaction of the students
i.e. emotions.
After the seminar, let's ask
how the participants felt.
Did they like the program?
Did they feel the heat?
Did they feel cold?
Did they have a proper lunch?
This is an assessment of emotions.
Let's take a look at the sports.
We can listen to a lecture
of a great football coach
and we can say that it was great.
We spent 2-3 hours with such a positive feeling.
We say that it was great.
It is an emotion.
We need to understand
what is left in the participants' heads.
We remember our football lecture.
Do we remember the main rules?
Or is there some inner feeling
about a well-spent time?
If the football lecture can be like this,
it should not be like this.
Our next task is to understand
what knowledge is left in the participants' heads.
If we taught operators of the call center
to work effectively, we need to understand
that they liked everything.
They left with the feeling
that they had a great time.
This was not the goal.
The next level is that there is not enough knowledge.
We can play football,
but none of us will ever go out on the pitch.
We can work with objections.
A manager can sigh a lot
and say that he has been through a lot of trainings
and he will go back to the same place.
But knowledge does not always imply skill.
We know how to do it.
We can work with people.
The next level is the level of behavior.
How much behavior has changed
after the training.
What is behavior? It is competence.
We understand that this is the most fixed change
in the development of competence
that we can analyze.
Has there been a change?
No.
It is easier for those companies
that have competence models
to reach the third level of efficiency.
We have all the tools.
We developed, we conducted
assessment centers, we evaluated, we looked.
We saw what was at the entrance.
After repeating the procedures,
we can analyze if there are any changes.
Can we make changes to the training program
that we conducted?
The next point is
how the fourth level of efficiency
and the business results
led to new behavior.
The operators of our call center
that we trained and liked
started to serve the client better.
What did it lead to?
It led to more clients.
Clients became more satisfied with our call center.
This is a business result
that we record and that is a consequence
of competence development.
To conclude the topic of competence use
in the development of staff,
the company receives the competence
from the employees.
In those companies where the staff
uses competence to form the system
of training and development of employees,
the employees themselves clearly understand
what competence is necessary for their career growth.
They understand what they need to do
to make their work evaluated positively.
The managers have a clear idea
of what their employees were trained for.
They clearly understand
what they can demand from their employees.
The staff receives a good tool
to evaluate the effectiveness of the investments
that are invested in training.
Let's talk about the use of competence
in the selection of staff.
We can evaluate the competence
of a certain employee in 40 minutes,
an hour, or an hour and a half.
We have a limited time.
We didn't know anything about the employee before.
There is no history of our relations.
The evaluation should be as accurate as possible.
We should make every effort
not to make a mistake.
The most important thing
is the direct costs and costs
that our company is incurring.
The selection of employees is the most accurate
if we evaluate them by competence.
There are two main methods
that we use.
The first is the interview by competence.
The second is the evaluation centers.
The advantage of the interview by competence
is that our questions will be based
on the analysis of the work
and will be aimed at the development of the skills
that are required for the work
that our candidate is applying for.
The next advantage is that the information
received during the interview
will be easier to structure
and we will easily assign the level of development
that the employee demonstrates,
the information that we will gather
during the interview,
and the skills that are required for the job.
Unfortunately, there are disadvantages.
The first one is the long duration of the interview.
In this case, it is important to use
the tool that we talked about today,
which is the tool of a pair comparison.
Before preparing for the interview,
we will determine the critical competencies
together with the manager.
What is the priority?
What competencies should be there?
In the absence of these competencies,
we can close our eyes and understand
that we are simply training this person.
The manager says that he does not need
to know the product,
he just needs to sell it well.
This competence is more important.
The other says that he needs to know the product
because it is a specific product,
and he will learn to sell it.
Different situations, different managers,
and in some similar competencies,
the two cases will be completely different.
We talked about the matrix of assessment,
the matrix of developing actions.
We also need to have a matrix of questions,
which we will use to identify
the competencies that we need.
The difficulty is that the candidate
can exaggerate a little.
Perhaps he will not tell what he did himself,
but he will show how someone did it,
as if it were his own project.
Therefore, we must initially prepare,
come up with those questions,
formulate those small tasks,
and the answers to which will allow us to determine
whether the candidate is talking about what he knows,
or he is trying to improvise,
because he has never done this before.
We can formulate questions aimed at identifying
professional competencies.
For example, we will ask the sales manager
to give as many solutions as possible
for the situation when the client requires a discount
that he cannot give.
Regardless of the product,
regardless of the specificity of the company's activities,
either a person knows how to do it,
or he has never worked before,
and his boss has always solved
such difficult situations with the client.
It is more difficult to talk about management competencies
and corporate competencies.
That is why it is necessary to ask situational questions,
to offer different situations,
to reveal how a person would behave in this situation,
and how he behaved when these situations happened
during his previous work.
Thus, by listening to the answers of the candidate during the interview,
we get a set of positive and negative indicators
applicable to the competencies
that we analyze.
This will allow us to analyze
the notes that we have left
and make a preliminary conclusion
about the competencies
that the candidate has developed.
For example, by evaluating the competence
of the orientation to the result,
we can ask the candidate questions
about what professional goals he sets for himself for the next year,
how ambitious these goals are for him,
what difficulties he can foresee in achieving these goals,
and what can prevent him from fulfilling his plans.
Thus, by listening to his answers and reflection,
we get a set of positive indicators.
We can say that this person sets goals for himself,
that he plans his career for the long term.
These goals may be professional goals,
or they may be personal goals.
Or we get a set of negative indicators.
When we say that we understand that
it is clear from the examples that
a person does not have specific goals,
or that he does not know how to set them,
setting certain goals for his own desire,
his own expectations.
Thus, in the end, we get some information for analysis.
When we analyze either a list of negative indicators
or a list of positive indicators,
we understand and can evaluate
what level of competence development,
the level of competence that we analyzed,
the orientation to the result of this candidate.
Then we compare it to the position.
How critical is it?
How much does a person in this position
need to be oriented to the result?
After that, we understand whether this competence
was named as a priority.
Thus, we get a tool for comparing
completely different candidates.
Colleagues, to conclude the topic of the application
of competence models, I will repeat once again
that, of course, the most profitable are those companies
where the competence model is the core
in the system of staff management
and all functions are tied, integrated
between them. Thus, the company
has the opportunity to become more flexible,
more mobile and better respond to changes
because, once again, if we re-examine
the competence after some time,
we guarantee that all our HR policies
will be adapted to the changes
that occur if the competence
is a key tool.
Very often we hear that
there is a competence, but it does not work.
When you start to think why it does not work,
the reasons are, most likely,
the resistance of the management
and the fact that employees
find reasons to ignore the competence.
Why does it happen?
There may be a number of reasons
why the competence does not work.
Let's think about it.
The first reason is the unreasonable
reasons for their development and implementation.
When the company developed the competence
not because it is necessary,
but because it is the future tool of staff management.
Maybe because everyone does it.
I heard at the conference that
the competing company has the competence.
Why not make it ourselves?
They have the competence.
It is clear that there are no reasons.
The second reason is that
some mistakes were made during the development.
Maybe the model is too complex?
Maybe we tried to describe
all the standards of behavior
and we got 20 competencies?
Maybe it is too simple?
There are only 4 of them
and employees do not understand
how their competence affects their work.
There is a competence. What is it?
I say, colleagues,
there can be 4 competencies
if we only define the corporate or management.
Then it should be brought to the employees
in the right way.
Maybe the model is poorly adapted for business tasks
and it does not meet the goals of the company?
Maybe it is borrowed from another company?
Or maybe the competence is wrong?
When we talked about the behavior standards
that we describe,
we talked about the high efficiency of the employees.
The next one.
There could be mistakes during the implementation.
The most common mistake is
that the employees do not understand
the purpose of the competencies.
But there are some.
The staff evaluated it,
but it is not always the case.
Maybe the management does not consider
them important.
It means that there was no proper attention
to involve the managers in the process.
It is important that the managers feel like their own.
If they cannot participate in all stages,
it is important to gather the managers,
to introduce them,
to answer their questions,
to listen to their comments.
To make changes, to talk again.
So that the managers understand
that they are also involved.
The size of the participation will remain behind the scenes.
Maybe the competencies are not integrated
into other management systems.
What does it mean?
We developed the competencies,
we evaluate them,
but it is not easy to develop the profiles,
develop the questions,
develop the exercises and use them during selection.
Maybe we did not have time,
or we did not consider them important,
or we did not train the people who do the selection.
There are many reasons.
The next reason why the model of competencies
is important is that its development
took place during a difficult time for the company.
What do we mean by a difficult time?
It can be restructuring,
it can be a period when the company experienced financial difficulties.
There may be another aspect,
there are no financial difficulties,
but there are many significant changes in the company.
Maybe the shareholder composition changes,
or some other projects are happening.
This project is lost
and it does not get the attention it deserves.
The next reason why competencies may not work
is that they are misused.
We are talking about the cases
when competencies are used as a strict list
according to which a person is evaluated.
There is no flexibility in their application, which is unacceptable.
There are also cases when the behavior indicators
of certain companies are replaced
by the personal interpretation of the supervisor of the evaluated employees.
When he puts into the competencies the meaning
that is understandable to him, that is close to him,
it is not always the meaning that corresponds to the definition
that was proposed by the group of developers.
Therefore, it is also important to monitor this point
and to control, to keep an eye on the pulse,
to train supervisors,
to talk to them,
to help them in the application of this model.
What else should we pay attention to when working with competencies?
First, competencies can intersect.
To check whether competencies intersect,
it is necessary to determine for yourself,
to assume,
whether two employees can work in a company,
one of which has one of the competencies
at a high level of development,
and the other is absent, and vice versa.
If we can answer the question,
yes, this is possible, then competencies do not intersect.
If we can answer the question, yes, this is possible, then competencies do not intersect.
Then there are two ways.
Either we give up one of the competencies,
or we somehow include one in the other.
Next, competencies can be very confusing.
When we try to determine
the maximum number of behavioral indicators for them,
and thus the competency becomes
simply incomprehensible to the perception.
Next, it is contradictory competencies.
When competencies contain statements
that contradict each other.
For example, describing the leaders and how the leader makes decisions,
there may be a behavioral indicator,
for example, such that the leader
makes decisions himself and takes responsibility.
And then there is a little bit less talk about
that when making a decision, he consults with colleagues
or, for example, with subordinates.
It is clear that these are things that are a little contradictory,
and therefore competencies need to be calculated and analyzed
so that this does not happen, then it will be difficult to apply them.
The next point is when competencies
incorrectly define standards.
And the mistake is that competencies are not divided by levels.
And thus, qualified and unqualified performers,
that is, people who have and do not have competencies,
they receive the same rating.
This is, again, a question of formulation.
Therefore, at the stage of formulating the list,
these questions should be asked.
The next point is when competencies in their definition
as indicators contain not actions, but results.
Colleagues, once again, competencies are those characteristics of a person
that we in the company can measure at the behavioral level.
Thus, in determining competencies,
we should always answer the question of what a person does,
but in no case should we describe some goals and results
that a person with this competence should achieve.
We can say that the model of competence is successfully implemented.
When can we say that the model of competence is successfully implemented?
First of all, it is necessary to understand
that the model of competence is not a model of competence.
It is a model of competence that is implemented
in a way that is not a model of competence.
First of all, it is implemented when it is constantly being improved.
When employees discuss competencies that are necessary for their work.
That is, competencies themselves are part of professional slang.
And employees operate them.
If you hear when one employee says to another,
but now you have not shown competence in your team,
it means that competencies have entered your corporate slang.
It has become the language you started to speak.
This is one of the reasons why you are not able to work in a team.
And, of course, we can talk about success when our managers
or sub-units of the middle-high-ranking branch
perceive competence as a tool of staff management
that helps them in their daily work.
To summarize, we will formulate several recommendations
about what is needed for competence to work.
Colleagues, first of all, an objective reason for the creation
and implementation of the competence model is needed.
It is necessary to understand that the competence model
is a very important reason for the creation and implementation of the competence model.
Second, it is necessary to involve line managers and employees
at all stages of work.
It is necessary to organize a competent internal PR project.
That is, to inform about how and why it happens,
what benefit the company, the line manager,
and the employees get.
It is necessary to teach how to use competencies
when they are developed.
It is necessary to repeat the general practice of using competencies.
That is, when evaluating the developed competence for the first time,
it is necessary to be flexible and test again
whether the competencies you have formulated
are really the standards,
the priority standards of behavior
that are necessary for your company.
And the last one is a mandatory,
let's say, gradual integration of competence
into all policies and procedures of the staff management service.
Colleagues, I wish you success and patience
in implementing this project in your companies
and I believe that the time we spent together was useful.